Docs: extension styling and theming (#1267)
kontena/lens: docs/extensions/capabilities/styling.md

# Styling

> Lens provides a set of global styles and UI components that can be used by any extension to preserve look and feel of the application. However, it’s always up to the developer whether to use them or provide completely different styles for the extension.

Reviewer: I think you can only make this claim
> However, it’s always up to the developer whether to use them or provide completely different styles for the extension.
if you have fixed #1251

Author: Removed for now

```
at the end will have following css properties:
```
div {
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  align-items: center;
}
```

However, feel free to use any styling technique or framework like [Emotion](https://github.com/emotion-js/emotion) or just plain CSS if you prefer.

## Themes
Lens using 2 built-in themes located in `src/renderer/themes` folder each for light and dark color schemes. Active theme can be changed in the `Preferences` page.

[theme selector]

When Lens gets loaded it transforms selected theme `json` file into list of [CSS Custom Properties (CSS Variables)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Using_CSS_custom_properties) which then gets injected into `:root` element so any of the down-level components can use them.

[css vars listed in devtools]

When user changes a theme, the process is repeated, new css variables appear instead of previous ones.

If you want to follow a selected theme to keep the 'native' Lens look and feel, respecting the light/dark appearance of your extension, you can use provided variables and build-in lens components such as buttons, dropdowns, checkboxes etc.

## Injected styles

> Every extention is affected by list of default global styles defined in `src/renderer/components/app.scss`. These are basic browser resets like setting `box-sizing` property for every element, default text and background colors, default font size, basic headings visualisation etc.

Reviewer: This is the stuff I think extensions should be isolated from (including `flex.box` as mentioned earlier) as part of #1251. Overriding these to reset them would be quite a challenge. I realize that's separate from this issue.

For now, this paragraph is very useful, since it states the current behavior, and points users to the Lens code that defines all the styles.

Extension may overwrite them if needed.

## Variables to use

### vars.scss
In `src/renderer/components/vars.scss` there are list of predefined variables mostly for dimensions and fonts.
```
// Dimensions
$unit: 8px;
$padding: $unit;
$margin: $unit;
$radius: ceil($unit * .3);

// Fonts
$font-main: 'Roboto', 'Helvetica', 'Arial', sans-serif !default;
$font-monospace: Lucida Console, Monaco, Consolas, monospace;
$font-size-small: floor(1.5 * $unit);
$font-size: floor(1.75 * $unit);
$font-size-big: floor(2 * $unit);
$font-weight-thin: 300;
$font-weight-normal: 400;
$font-weight-bold: 500;
...

> ```

Reviewer: This is good to know. #1251 should move all these into CSS variables to make them more accessible, like the colors are, regardless of using SCSS or not.

I'm also not sure how an extension would reference this SCSS file. It's not published in the `@k8slens/extensions` package...

Having the file reference is useful, but without being able to reference it in the extension's SCSS build, not very useful at all. If they were CSS variables, that would be a different story...

Author: Converted all of these into CSS vars.

You can use them to set consistent paddings, define font-sizes in your SCSS files e.g.
```
.status {
  padding-left: $padding * 2;
  font-size: $font-size-small;
}
```

### theme-vars.scss

> In `src/renderer/themes/theme-vars.scss` there are list of theme-defined colors. Most of their values are different for light and dark themes. You can use them to preserve consitent view of extension with respect of selected theme.

Reviewer: Same here: How would I reference this in an extension's build? These all reference CSS vars, so that's much better (more accessible to a wider range of extension implementations; my extension doesn't use SCSS, BTW, it uses Emotion and Lens components).

Reviewer: If you want to encourage extension developers to use SCSS, then you need:
1. to provide these SCSS files via some NPM package import;
2. document what all these variables are and where they should be used;
3. make sure that all your extension examples come with SCSS processor "built-in" to the build (none of them do, right now).

Author: I guess there's no urge for now to encourage developers to use exactly SCSS since the only benefit currently is to use few basic variables. I've transfered them into CSS vars and removed encouragement message.

```
<div className="flex column align-center"></div>
```
at the end will have following css properties:
```
div {
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  align-items: center;
}
```

However, feel free to use any styling technique or framework like [Emotion](https://github.com/emotion-js/emotion) or just plain CSS if you prefer.

## Themes
Lens using 2 built-in themes located in `src/renderer/themes` folder each for light and dark color schemes. Active theme can be changed in the `Preferences` page.
![Color Theme](images/theme-selector.png)

When Lens gets loaded it transforms selected theme `json` file into list of [CSS Custom Properties (CSS Variables)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Using_CSS_custom_properties) which then gets injected into `:root` element so any of the down-level components can use them.
![CSS vars listed in devtools](images/css-vars-in-devtools.png)

When user changes a theme, the process is repeated, new css variables appear instead of previous ones.

> If you want to follow a selected theme to keep the 'native' Lens look and feel, respecting the light/dark appearance of your extension, you can use provided variables and build-in lens components such as buttons, dropdowns, checkboxes etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to follow a selected theme to keep the 'native' Lens look and feel, respecting the light/dark appearance of your extension, you can use provided variables and built-in Lens components such as `Button`, `Select`, `Table`, etc.
```

## Injected styles

> Every extention is affected by list of default global styles defined in `src/renderer/components/app.scss`. These are basic browser resets like setting `box-sizing` property for every element, default text and background colors, default font size, basic headings visualisation etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every extension is affected by list of default global styles defined in `src/renderer/components/app.scss`. These are basic browser resets like setting `box-sizing` property for every element, default text and background colors, default font size, basic headings visualisation etc.
```

# Styling an extension
Lens provides a set of global styles and UI components that can be used by any extension to preserve look and feel of the application.

> ## Styling approach

Reviewer: I would rename this section to "Layout" and move the new "Basic Styling" (which is mostly about layout) section into this "Layout" section. I would leave-out the fonts, though, since that's more theme than layout.

So maybe like this:
```markdown
## Layout

For layout tasks, Lens is using a combination of CSS Variables, and flex.box...
...
...However, feel free to use any styling technique or framework like [Emotion](https://github.com/emotion-js/emotion) or just plain CSS if you prefer.

### Layout Variables

(The content from "Basic Styling" excluding fonts.)
```

Then, we could have the Theme section, for colors and fonts (even though you're currently not changing fonts with the themes, but that's an implementation detail, IMO), where "Themable Colors" becomes "Theme Variables":

```markdown
## Layout

...(as above)...

## Themes

Lens is using 2 built-in themes located in `src/renderer/themes` folder each for light and dark color schemes. Active theme can be changed in the `Preferences` page...
...

### Theme Variables

After theme file gets parsed it provides list of theme-defined colors. Most of their values are different for light and dark themes. You can use them to preserve consistent view of extension with respect of selected theme...
...
Colors values are located inside `src/renderer/themes/lens-dark.json` and `src/renderer/themes/lens-light.json` files.
```

So the document outline would look like this:
```markdown
# Styling an extension

## Layout

### Layout Variables

## Themes

### Theme Variables

## Injected Styles

## CSS-in-JS
```

> Lens heavily uses SCSS preprocessor with a set of predefined variables and mixins.

Reviewer: Since you've now moved everything pertinent to extensions into CSS variables, I would recommend removing this line. Extensions don't need to care about how Lens does things internally. They should only care about how they're supposed to do things, and what Lens does that will affect them (namely, the CSS variables available to them, as well as anything that would affect layout like `flex.box`, which you mention below).

  --font-monospace: Lucida Console, Monaco, Consolas, monospace;
  --font-size-small: calc(1.5 * var(--unit));
  --font-size: calc(1.75 * var(--unit));
  --font-size-big: calc(2 * var(--unit));
  --font-weight-thin: 300;
  --font-weight-normal: 400;
  --font-weight-bold: 500;
```

They're intended to set consistent paddings and font-sizes across components, e.g.
```
.status {
  padding-left: calc(var(--padding) * 2);
  font-size: var(--font-size-small);
}
```

### Themable colors
After theme file gets parsed it provides list of theme-defined colors. Most of their values are different for light and dark themes. You can use them to preserve consitent view of extension with respect of selected theme.
```
  "blue": "#3d90ce",
  "magenta": "#c93dce",
  "golden": "#ffc63d",
  "halfGray": "#87909c80",
  "primary": "#3d90ce",
  "textColorPrimary": "#555555",
  "textColorSecondary": "#51575d",
  "textColorAccent": "#333333",
  "borderColor": "#c9cfd3",
  "borderFaintColor": "#dfdfdf",
  "mainBackground": "#f1f1f1",
  "contentColor": "#ffffff",
  "layoutBackground": "#e8e8e8",
  "layoutTabsBackground": "#f8f8f8",
  "layoutTabsActiveColor": "#333333",

>   "layoutTabsLineColor": "#87909c80"

Reviewer: I think we should add the `--` CSS var prefix to each one.
